# Learning in my life

## Operant conditioning in my life

There is a music game called Arcaea. Through operant conditioning, I mastered the game. The goal of the game is **tapping all notes at the right timing.** (target behavior). The performance points you get, which you could show off to your friends, are based on the number of notes you tapping correctly. If you play better in this run, **your score will increase**, making you feel excited (positive reinforcement). However, if you play worse, **your score will decrease**, making you feel frustrated and thinking about how to get better. (negative reinforcement). The score will increase **every time after you finished and improved in one song.** (fixed-ratio schedule of reinforcement, I get an increase in the score every time I played better). During the time you are playing the music, you will hear **a special sound effect like "ding" whenever you hit one note correctly**, and that increases my confidence in getting a higher score. (discriminative stimulus, the sound effect signals the possibility of reinforcement, the increase in score). Through this operant learning to just get a better score to show off, I kept practicing and improving, and eventually performed better. 

## Classical conditioning in my life

When I was in high school, I used one of my favorite songs as the music for alarms, which is a worse decision I found out later. Since I had tons of assignments to do in high school, I always lacked sleep. Whenever I **am aroused by the alarms** in the early morning, **I am extremely tired** (UCR) because of the **lacking of sleep** (paired CS with UCS, acquisition phase). I used this music for 3 years, and one day, when I suddenly **listened to this music again** (CS), I got **a bit, but not very, sleepy** (CR). However, after I played it for few times alone throughout the next few months, the **tiredness gradually disappeared** (UCS appeared alone, extinction phase). Fortunately, I don't have this strange tiredness when listening to music made by the same artist (stimulus discrimination).

## Problem solved by conditioning

I am **an over-perfectionist**. So, I frequently **couldn't turn in before the deadline** simply because I spend too much time perfecting one assignment, and end up having no time to finish the other assignments. I might use **operant conditioning** to solve my problem. I think the **target behavior** is that I should not put extra effort into homework after it already meets the requirements. I will use **positive reinforcement**. Since I really like play video games, I will allow myself to play games for 30 minutes, if I am not perfecting my assignments on that day. I think this is **a fixed interval** schedule of reinforcement because I give reinforcement every day I fulfilled target behavior. I think positive reinforcement is a good idea because I loved to play video games, which makes it a good reinforcement. I think fixed intervals might also be better because it's hard to change perfectionism, so I need constant reinforcement. Also, a fixed interval could make sure I at maximum only reward 30-minutes video games time for myself, so it won't be too bad for my eyes. The practical problem I might face is that "requirements" is not clear in the **target behavior**, the requirement might be clear in some subject like Math, but might be vague in English writing, so I might still over-perfect my assignments. 

## Cognitive Processes in conditioning

There is also a cognitive process that happened in the learning process of mastering the music game (first paragraph). When there is music that is hard to play, playing again and again is almost useless. Thinking will help here. After getting a bad score, I usually analyze the sheet, find out the possible solution and timing, and do "rehearsal" in my mind while tapping on the table, rather than playing repeatedly just trying to avoiding error by instinct. 

