The game have three parts. Player have 100 health in total, after first stage, player get 2 health pack. After second stage, player get 5 health pack. Each health pack gives 10 health.

The first part consists of pursuer and mortar. The player mainly will focus on dodging the pursuer (there are 8 of them). The mortar is put in the center of the platform to shoot projectiles, which could create blasts on the ground. The blasts cause on average 6 - 12 damage when player run into them, which is a comparable to 10 damage dealt by pursuer. So, the blast reduce the amount of movable place for player to run away from pursuer, and increased the difficulty. Also, the mortar will not only explode when it hits player, when two mortar hit each other, both of them will explode, and together they will give you 10 points. (10 times the value of a coin). This encourages player to dodge the pursuer and make them hit each other (really requires skills), increasing the playability of the game.

The second part consists of one pursuer, 4 turrets, and one homing turret. The homing turret have large range, and will shoot homing projectile in high speed. The bullet is explosive, and thus player will usually be knocked back and hit by multiple homing projectile in a row (and possibly knock back into the void and die). The 4 turret and one pursuer will hinder player movement on top of the homing turret, making this stage harder. The coin is put near the homing turret. The closer to the turret, the more coin their will be. This encouraged player to come near the homing turret and use their skills to get the coin while not die to the homing turret, which increases the playability of the game. 

The third part will produce frustration for player. In this stage, there is a jump boost in the beginning giving 10s jump boost, there are few small, separated platforms. To get to the end, player will use the 10s jump boost to jump to each platforms to reach the end. There are also 6 turrets near the platform, which shoots explosive projectile to the player. Since the platform is really small, there is almost no room for error. The last platform is designed to be rather far from the previous one, requiring the player to hold shift (for sprinting) and jump together, which increase the difficulty a bit. The player basically needs to jump to each platform with no hesitation, otherwise they will be knocked off by turrets. 

If speed running with good skill (Any%), the game could be finished around 45s. However, a new player usually require 6-7 trials in total to finish the game, which put the game duration to 6-8 minutes. Also, the various challenges to get more score increase the game duration possibly more.

