In recent years, two Netflix series, *Alice in Borderland* and *Squid Game*, have gained global popularity with their intense narratives and thought-provoking reflections on society. *Squid Game* follows financially desperate individuals competing in deadly childhood games for a cash prize, while *Alice in Borderland* depicts three friends trapped in a dystopian Tokyo where they must play brutal survival games. This essay analyzes the similarities and differences between *Alice in Borderland* and *Squid Game*. Both series depict people's inner struggle in a contemporary industrialized and technologically advanced society using the metaphor from deadly games. While *Squid Game* symbolizes the economic hardship and class conflict in modern capitalist society via ruthless competition in childish games, *Alice in Borderland* emphasizes the sense of meaninglessness and existential crisis in an atomized society through dehumanizing games and a technologically advanced world.

Both games symbolize the relentless and fatal competition in contemporary society. Firstly, both games have a strict overall timer. In *Squid Game*, players will be shot if they cannot reach the finish line before the timer. In *Alice in Borderland*, if players cannot decide within the time limit, they will be burnt to death in their room. The timer signifies the endless and hectic nature of industrial society. Secondly, a single mistake in both games, whether choosing a seemingly random door in *Alice in Borderland* or moving the body in a tiny distance in *Squid Game*, could cost a player’s life. The inhumanely strict rule symbolizes the merciless and fatal competition of industrial society. Thirdly, both games emphasize the sacrifice of others. In *Squid Game*, Cho Sang-woo suggests that Gi-hun hide behind other players to avoid being detected while increasing other chances of being shot. In *Alice in Borderland*, Saori “deceives” the student to go into the wrong door in the first room, for them to find the correct answer. This sacrifice strengthens the metaphor of the fatal competition within the society. Moreover, technology plays an enforcing. Role in the games. The doll in Squid Game is equipped with a motion sensor to accurately detect and shoot down moving targets. The laser in Alice in Borderland could instantly kill anyone who does not play the games. The games here illustrate that technologies are acting as a catalyst and accomplices to the nature of contemporary society.

Despite the common theme, *Squid Game* and *Alice in Borderland* offer distinct interpretations of the “game world” and people’s inner struggles. In *Squid Game*, it takes a more direct approach to economic hardship and class inequality. At the beginning of the episode (SG, 10:50), Gi-hun is threatened by the gang. The fear in his eyes, his cowardly sound, and his messy hair illustrate the terrible financial situation he is in. Despite being penniless, he still wants to have something for his daughter’s birthday. He asks the accountant madam to get back his 10000 won, a pessimistic amount of money. Later when eating with his daughter (SG, 14:21), when he heard that her daughter’s stepfather could afford steak while all he could give to her was tteokbokki, his face frozen, but his daughter gave an excuse that she loved tteokbokki better than steaks. This contrast creates an image of a poor man who wants to be a caring father but loses all his self-esteem and dignity and greatly emphasizes the struggles of the economic hardship Gi-hun faces. Relating to the book written by Claeys, this constant fear repeatedly experienced Gi-hum due to his economic hardship, which other characters share more or less in a same way shown in the later episode, relates to a concept in the book that associates with dystopian regimes where “much of the population lives in a constant state of fear” (Claeys 2022: 55). Near the end of the episode (SG, 51:10), while Gi-hun is facing a twisted live-or-dead childhood game, the “front man” is casually sitting in a chair, drinking liquors, and seeing all the players die. In the later episodes, all the players are sent to this “playground” by some billionaire, each of whom betrays a different player just like Gi-hun picking the horse at the beginning of the episode. This direct contrast directly shows the immense class inequality, where the difference in class is no longer the difference in wealth, but the difference between humans and an animal or commodities. Ironically, when the players get released from the Squid Game, most of them return as the Squid Game is their only salvage, emphasizing the bloodless but even more deadly reality than the live-or-dead Squid Game.

On the flip side, *Alice in Borderland* leaves a more subtle emphasis on the sense of meaninglessness and existential crisis. Before Arisu and his friends enter the “borderland” (AIB, 8:50), three stand in front of a crossroads, all silenced. People are bustling and streets are full of traffic, yet the three are all away from their expected role in society, acting as observers. This sense of departure from reality and alienation perfectly describes the sense of meaninglessness, In when next scene Karube seriously asks Arisu if he should do something, and Arisu and Choto return him with ridicule. When they go into the “borderland” (AIB, 21:40), Arisu says “Don’t you find this exciting?”, followed by Choto saying “…I don’t have to go to work. No one to be angry with us, and we could eat and drink all we want”. They followed it with a crazy and abnormal laugh. This excitement from the departure of reality further emphasizes the feeling of meaninglessness within the characters’ minds. Besides, the sense of meaninglessness is also depicted in a metaphorically subtle way. In their first game, “Three of Spades”, both the “live” door and “death” door have a picture on them, with the “live” door having a cute anime girl on it. The contrast between the live-or-dead game and the lovely picture on the door creates a sense of absurdity and horror that people’s lives are hanging on this simple, yet nonsensical choice, emphasizing the meaninglessness of life in front of the otherworldly game, which metaphorizes the actual society as aforementioned.

In conclusion, both *Squid Game* and *Alice in Borderland* use their deadly games as metaphors for the intense pressures of contemporary industrialized society, yet they do so with distinct focuses. *Squid Game* presents a direct critique of economic hardship and class inequality, where participants are reduced to commodities in a merciless capitalist system. In contrast, *Alice in Borderland* explores the existential crisis and meaninglessness that individuals face in an atomized, technologically driven world. While both series highlight the relentless and dehumanizing nature of modern life, *Squid Game* emphasizes economic despair, and *Alice in Borderland* delves into the alienation and absurdity of existence.