#### (a)

$$
\begin{align}
S &= aSd \ | \ aBc \ | \  bCd \ | \ bDc \ | \ \epsilon \\
B&=aBc \ | \ bDc \ | \ \epsilon \\
C&=bCd \ | \ bDc \ | \ \epsilon \\
D&=bDc \ | \ \epsilon
\end{align}
$$

$S$ is the starting non-terminal. The $B$ is the case when there is already $c$ after $B$ (in this case, it could not have $d$ otherwise it is not in the language). $C$ is the case when there is already $b$ before $C$ (it could not have $a$ otherwise it is not in the language). $D$ is the case when there is already $b$ before $D$ and there is already $c$ after $D$. (in this case it could not have $d$ and $b$ other it's not in the language). $S$ is all the other cases, where it's possible for us to choose either $a$, $b$, $c$, or $d$. In each case, we have made sure when it's "unfold", the $i + j = k+ l$ holds This is achieved by make sure when $a$ or $b$ added on left side, $c$ or $d$ always added the right side. $\epsilon$ also in either case won't violate the rule in language.

#### (b)

$$
S = 000S2 \ | \ 001W2 \ | \ 011W2 \ | \ 111W2 \ | \ \epsilon \\
W = 111W2 \ | \ \epsilon
$$

$S$ is the starting non-terminal. The $W$ is the case when there is already $1$ before it. It could not have $0$ in it so it won't violate the role in the language. $S$ is all other cases. In each case, we have made sure that when it's unfold, the $k = 3(i+j)$. It's achieved when we add a $2$ on right, we add 3 `0` or `1`s or the left side. $\epsilon $ also in either case won't violate the rule in language.

#### (c)

$$
\begin{align*}
  S   &= R_1 | R_2 | R_3 | R_4 | R_5 \\
  A   &= 0A \mid 1A \mid \epsilon \\
  A'  &= 0A \mid 1A \mid \# A \mid \epsilon \\
 A_1 &= \epsilon \\
 A_2 &= \# \\
 A_3 &= \#A\# \\
 A_4 &= \#A\#A\# \\ 
 R_1 &= A_1 \mid 0R_10 \mid 1R_11 \\
 R_2 &= A_2 \mid 0R_20 \mid 1R_21 \\
 R_3 &= A_3 \mid 0R_30 \mid 1R_31 \mid R_2\#A \mid A\#R_2 \\
 R_4 &= A_4 \mid 0R_40 \mid 1R_41 \mid R_3\#A \mid A\#R_3 \\
 R_5 &= A'\#R\#A' \\
 R   &= A_3 \mid 0R0 \mid 1R1 \\
\end{align*}
$$

$S$ is the starting non-terminal. $R_i$ handles the case when there's exactly $i$ count of $\#$ within the string. $R_5$ handles the case when there's at least $5$ count of $\#$ within the string.

#### (d)

$$
S = 0 \ | \ 1 \ | \ 0A0 \ | \ 1A1 \ | \ 0A1 \ | \ 1S0 \\
A = 0A \ | \ 1A \ | \ \epsilon \\
$$

$S$ is the starting non-terminal. The $A$ is a case where any string or epsilon is accepted. The case $0$, $1$, $0A0$, $1A1$, $0A1$ is all the case directly violate the $L'$, so we use $A$ to indicates that in this case we could fill whatever we want. The case $1S0$, is when the string revealed so far conforms to the language $L'$, so we still need put a $S$ inside to make sure the resulted string violates $L'$.

