#### (a)

##### (i)

Consider the fooling set
$$
F = \{ 0^{n} \ | \ n \ge 1 \}
$$
Without loss of generality, We pick the element $0^n$ and $0^m$ where $n < m$. We set the suffix to be $2^{n - 1}$. The $0^n 2^{n -1}$ is in the language because in this case $i + j = n + 0 = n$ and $k + 1 = n - 1 + 1 = n$. Therefore $i + j = k + 1$. However, $0^{m} 2^{n - 1}$ is not in the language since $i + j = m + 0 = m$, and $k + 1 = n - 1 + 1 = n$, and $m \neq n$ obviously from our assumption. Therefore, this fooling set includes infinite elements that are mutually distinguishable.

##### (ii)

Consider the fooling set
$$
F = \{ 0^{i} 1 \ | \ i \ge 1 \}
$$
Without loss of generality, we pick the element $0^{i}1$ and $0^j1$ from the fooling set where $i < j$. We set the suffix to be $0^i$. The $0^i 1 0^i$ is thus in the language because there is two empty blocks (namely, $0^i$ since $i > 0$) that are equal length (length $i$). However, the $0^i 1 0^j$ is not in the language because its two non-empty blocks  $0^i$ and $0^j$ (non-empty since $i > 0$ and $j > 0$) has different length (because $i \neq j$ from our assumption). Therefore, this fooling set includes infinite elements that are mutually distinguishable.

##### (iii)

Consider the fooling set with recursive definition:

* Base: $F[0] = 0^{k \cdot 2^k}$ where $k \ge 2$ (you could choose any $k \ge 2$ as you want)

* Induction: Write the previous element in the form of $F[n - 1] = 0^{i \cdot 2^i}$, let $m = 2^{i + 1}$ and
  $$
  F[n] = 0^{m\cdot 2^m}
  $$

It's obvious that all elements in $F$ is in the language. To show this, we pick an element $0^{i \cdot 2^i}$. We see that
$$
0^{i \cdot 2^i} = 0^{\log_2 2^i \cdot 2^i} = 0^{\lceil \log_2 2^i \cdot 2^i \rceil}
$$
which match the definition of the language. It's also trivial that if we write the element in the form of $0^{i \cdot 2^i}$, it's always true that $i \ge 2$. It's also trivial to see that if two elements $F[a] = 0^{i \cdot 2^i}$ and $F[b] = 0^{j \cdot 2^j }$, then if $a > b$ then $i > j$. 

We are gonna prove that for any two elements $F[a] = 0^{i \cdot 2^i}$ and $F[b] = 0^{j \cdot 2^j }$ in the fooling set where $a > b$ ($i < j$) (without loss of generality), the suffix $s$ that makes $0^{i \cdot 2^i}s = 0^{\lceil (2^i+1) \cdot \log_2(2^i + 1) \rceil}$ (this is just the next immediate element of the $0^{i \cdot 2^i}$ in the $L$) has **smaller** length than the suffix $s'$ that make $0^{j \cdot 2^j }s' = 0^{\lceil (2^j+1) \cdot \log_2(2^j + 1) \rceil}$ (the next immediate element of $0^{j \cdot 2^j}$ in $L$). To show this, we use induction on the size of $F$:

* Base case, there is the case when there is only $F[0] = 0^{k\cdot 2^k}$ and $F[1] = 0^{m\cdot 2^m}$ in $F$. In this case, we see that the **length** of the suffix $s$ should be ($s$ itself obviously should be a run of $0$s).
  $$
  |s| = \lceil (2^k+1) \cdot \log_2(2^k + 1) \rceil - k \cdot 2^{k} \\
  \le \lceil (2^k+1) \cdot \log_2(2^{k + 1}) \rceil - k \cdot 2^{k} \\
  = (2^k +1)\cdot (k + 1) -k\cdot 2^k \\
  = 2^k +k + 1
  $$
  Notice, we use that fact that $2^{k + 1} \ge 2^{k} +1$ for $k \ge 2$

  we have find a upper bound for the length of the suffix. However, we could also calculate the lower bound of the suffix $s'$ that could make $0^{m \cdot 2^m}s' = 0^{\lceil (2^m+1) \cdot \log_2(2^m + 1) \rceil}$:
  $$
  |s'| =  \lceil (2^m+1) \cdot \log_2(2^m + 1) \rceil - m \cdot 2^{m} \\
  \ge \lceil (2^m+1) \cdot \log_2(2^m) \rceil -  m \cdot 2^{m} \\
  = (2^m +1)\cdot m - m \cdot 2^{m}\\
  = m = 2^{k + 1}
  $$
  and we see that $|s'| = 2^{k + 1} = 2^{k} + 2^{k} > 2^{k} + k + 1 = |s|$ since $k \ge 2$, which proves the hypothesis in base case.

* Induction, suppose the above hypothesis works for $F = \{F[0], F[1], \cdots, F[n] \}$. We add a new element $F[n + 1]$ according to its definition, and we want to prove the hypothesis still holds. Consider any two elements, $F[l]$ ($0 \le l \le n$) and $F[n + 1]$. We write them in the form: $F[l] = 0^{i \cdot 2^i}$ and $F[n] = 0^{j \cdot 2^j }$, and $F[n+1] = 0^{p \cdot 2^p }$. From the inductive hypothesis, we know that the suffix $s$ that make $F[l]s = 0^{\lceil (2^i+1) \cdot \log_2(2^i + 1) \rceil}$ and the suffix $s'$ that makes $F[n]s = 0^{\lceil (2^j+1) \cdot \log_2(2^j + 1) \rceil}$ satisfy the relation that $|s| \le |s'|$ (notice the condition when they are equal is when $l = n$). We know that
  $$
  |s'| = \lceil (2^j+1) \cdot \log_2(2^j + 1) \rceil - j \cdot 2^{j} \\
  \le \lceil (2^j+1) \cdot \log_2(2^{j + 1}) \rceil - j \cdot 2^{j} \\
  = (2^j +1)\cdot (j + 1) -j\cdot 2^j \\
  = 2^j +j + 1
  $$
  and suppose that the suffix $s''$ make $F[n + 1]s'' = 0^{\lceil (2^p+1) \cdot \log_2(2^p + 1) \rceil}$. Then
  $$
  |s''| =  \lceil (2^p+1) \cdot \log_2(2^p + 1) \rceil - p \cdot 2^{p} \\
  \ge \lceil (2^p+1) \cdot \log_2(2^p) \rceil -  p \cdot 2^{p} \\
  = (2^p +1)\cdot p - p \cdot 2^{p}\\
  = p = 2^{j + 1}
  $$
  using the same trick in base case, we see that $|s''| = 2^{j + 1}= 2^j + 2^j > 2^j + j + 1 = |s'|$, since $j \ge 2$. From this, we get $|s''| > |s|$, and we prove the hypothesis.

Once this hypothesis proved, for any two different elements in our set $F[a]$ and $F[b]$ with $a > b$, we could find one suffix $s$ that $F[a]s$ is next immediate element of $F[a]$ in language $L$. However, since hypothesis said the suffix $s'$ that makes $F[b]s'$ the next immediate element of $F[b]$ in language $L$ is longer than $s$, that means $F[b]s$ is not in the language. Therefore, this infinite fooling set is valid with its elements mutually distinguishable.



#### (b)

For $L_k$, consider the fooling set $F$
$$
F = \{ \{0, 1 \}^{k} \}
$$
this set has size of $2^k$. To prove it's working, we first define a size $k$ tuple $t$ associate with each string $s$ in $F$:

* $t[0] = s[0]$
* $t[i] = t[i -1] + s[i]$, $k > i > 0$

(Note the implicit conversion from string `0` and `1` to number). Informally, each entry $t[k]$ counts the number of $1$ in $s$ from $s[0]$ to $s[i]$. Note, two different string $u$ and $v$ in $F$ will have different $t_u$ and $t_v$. Prove this by contradiction: suppose $t_u = t_v$. Then 

* $u[0] = t_u[0] = t_v[0] = v[0]$
* $u[i] = t_u[i] - t_u[i - 1] = t_v[i] - t_v[i - 1] = v[i]$. for $k > i > 0$.

This means $u = v$, which violates our assumption that $u$ are $v$ are different. So, two different strings $u$ and $v$ in $F$ must have different $t_u$ and $t_v$.

Therefore, to prove that this fooling set is valid, we pick two different string $u$ and $v$. Since they are different, we have a different $t_u$ and $t_v$. Since the tuple are different, they need to have at least one entry such that $t_u[i] \neq t_v[i]$. Use a suffix $s$ that is $2k - (i + 1)$ long and contains $k - t_u[i]$ `1` s. Such suffix exists because $2k - (i + 1) \ge k$ since $i < k$, and $k - t_u[i] \le k$ since $t_u[i] \ge 0$. With the suffix $s$, both $us$ and $vs$ has length $2k - (i + 1) + k \ge 2k$, fulfilling one requirement for $L$. However, the last $2k$ character for $us$ will be $u[i:0]s$ with $t_u[i] + k - t_u[i] = k$ `1`s (and hence $k$ `0` s), this will make `0` and `1`s in last $2k$ equal and $us$ not accepted by the language. $vs$, on the other hand, have last $2k$ character $v[i: 0] s$ with $t_u[i] + k - t_v[i] \neq k$ since $t_u[i] \neq t_v[i]$. This will make the number of `1`s and `0`s in the last $2k$ character unequal and thus $v$ is in the $L$. Therefore, this size $2^k$ fooling set $F$ is valid with its element mutually distinguishable.

#### (c)

First notice that
$$
(L \backslash L') \cup (L \cap L') = L 
$$
We use proof by contradiction. Suppose $L\backslash L'$ is regular, then since $L'$ is finite, the intersection $L \cap L'$ is finite too. This means $L \cap L'$ is also regular. (We could just loop through every string $s$ in $L \cap L'$ and construct a regular expression $r$ that is union of all the strings, this will make $L(r) = L\cap L'$). Now we know that both $L\backslash L'$ and $L\cap L'$, there union is also regular since regular language is closed under union. However, that means $L$ is regular, which contradicts with the assumption. Therefore, $L\backslash L'$ is not regular.

For the example, consider the $L = \{ 1^n 0^n \ | \ n \ge 0 \}$, and $L'$ represented by $1^*0^*$. Obviously, this means that $L\backslash L' = \empty$, and it's obviously regular. 

